Hi everyone!
Today we will start a new section.
Section 13 functions.
What is a function?
A function is a block of code which only runs when it's called.
You can pass data known as parameters into a function.
A function can return data as a result.
In Python, function is defined using the def keyword like here.
In this example, to call a function, use the function name followed by parentheses function name followed
by parentheses.
If we have argument, we need to add our argument separated by a comma.
Information can be passed into functions as arguments.
Arguments are specified after the function name inside the parentheses.
You can add as many arguments as you want, just separate them with a comma.
The following example has a function with one argument f name.
When the function is called, we pass along a first name which is used inside the function.
To print the full name we have our function.
We pass the argument first name and we will print inside the function a note arguments are often shortened
to arg s in Python.
Documentation.
To let a function return a value, use the return statement.
Here this function returns an integer.
Function definition cannot be empty, but if you for some reason have a function definition with no
content, put in the pass statement to avoid getting an error.
If you remember, we just see that with the section conditional blocks in the chapter nested if.
Let's see that if a statement cannot be empty.
But if you for some reason have an if statement with no content, put in the pass statement to avoid
getting an error.
We put the pass statement to avoid getting an error to an empty if statement.
Let's go to PyCharm to do some practices.
Section 13 first part.
Here in the first example we create our function.
When execute this code there is no result to the console.
Why?
Because to do this function to be executed, we need to call this function like.
In the second example, we need to call the function to be executed rlhs the result it will be hello
from a function two we can pass an argument to our functions like here.
In this example, we can pass a lot of arguments as you want.
Just be sure to separate them by a comma.
First name, last name for example.
Let's execute this example.
The return value.
We can return a value from a function with the statement return.
In this example, we will return an integer.
The pass statement is used to avoid getting an error in empty functions.
Because a function cannot be empty.